Update README (#1177)
hashintel/hash: packages/hash/README.md

We will be developing HASH into a production-grade application which can be self-hosted. The current design and architecture, while not fully realized, paves the way for further features, scale, and performance. You can read about the long-term vision for HASH [here](https://hash.ai/platform/hash).

> **Warning:**
> The repository is currently in a state of flux while some large improvements are being implemented.

> > As such, portions of this README may prove outdated in the interim, this could include guides on how to load blocks, references to various services, broken tests, features, etc.

Reviewer: @Alfred-Mountfield I would prefer we be more specific here, if possible, but this is fine.

Author: I'd err on leaving it as is for now, for similar reasoning as Ciaran:
> I agree that the level of flux means it will be difficult to keep this in sync and risks ending up with a README that incorrectly flags things as broken which aren't, or vice versa.
>
> We should have a separate record of 'things in the readme that are broken' which we can keep track of and tick off as we fix them (e.g. in Asana).

If we end up rethinking this then we can update as needed, I just think things are going to be changing a **lot** and it'll be a bit hard to keep the README up to date. That said, we'll need to restructure the asana soon, so perhaps that would be a good opportunity to encapsulate and write it down here for open-consumption.

    docker run hello-world
    ```

1.  Launch external services (Postgres, the graph query layer, Kratos, Redis, and OpenSearch) as Docker containers:

    ```sh
    yarn external-services up
    ```

    1. You can optionally force a rebuild of the docker containers by adding the `--build` argument(**this is necessary if changes have been made to the graph query layer). It's recommended to do this whenever updating your branch from upstream**.
    

>     1. You can keep external services running between app restarts by adding the `--detach` argument to run the containers in the background. It's then possible to tear down the external services with `yarn external-services down`.

Author: Added, an accidental force push made it impossible to commit directly

    See `package.json` → `scripts` for details and more options.

---

To stop Docker containers with external services, run:

```sh
yarn external-services down
```

Container data is persisted locally inside `var/external-services`.

> You can delete this directory when containers are stopped for a ‘hard reset’.

Reviewer 2: We no longer create mounted volumes, just normal docker volumes

https://github.com/hashintel/hash/blob/main/packages/hash/external-services/docker-compose.yml#L48

The opensearch mounting is disabled on main right now. 
The only thing that would use the var folder on `dev/graph` would be any dumps from the API (likely unused in `dev/graph`)

> You can delete this directory when containers are stopped for a ‘hard reset’.

Author: @thehabbos007 or @benwerner01 might be able to give a better answer but we did discuss this. OpenSearch is broken and will need updating, as part of that we will revisit volume management. So it is possible that it expects such a folder, but keeping the lines here will be misleading, and trying to rephrase them to encapsulate the subtlety while also explaining OpenSearch is broken seems like wasted effort.

Aside from OpenSearch specifically if we'd like volumes to be persisted in a named space on the disk we should probably have that as a task.

> [//]: # (TODO: **Disclaimer: Current flux of the repo means the code mentioned in this section is temporarily disabled**)

Author: Generally how do we want to handle this? I think we should just have one global disclaimer at the moment stating that the repo is in flux and features may be broken, or unused. (For instance the guidance around block development will need a hefty disclaimer that might be quite difficult to keep in sync with development if we intend it to be comprehensive).

cc @nonparibus @CiaranMn

Reviewer: Provided we continue tracking the broken bits and pieces that will need fixing following the merge of `dev/graph` into `main`, I'm happy to lose the section-by-section disclaimers and replace it with a single one up top.

Let's still tell users what they should and shouldn't expect to work in the app, however, by writing a disclaimer along the lines of "We are currently migrating the HASH app to a new backend and the `main` branch is unstable. Certain functionality may be broken or disabled, including: X, Y, Z".

Reviewer: Ciaran has suggested similar here: https://github.com/hashintel/hash/pull/1177#discussion_r990060824

Author: I've taken a go at this: https://github.com/hashintel/hash/pull/1177/commits/efa45283d11a23392cceb30198c644e115564a8f

Please feel free to push commits / suggest changes at will (please do so through the files tab rather than clicking on that commit link because GitHub is confusing)

See https://blockprotocol.org/docs/developing-blocks

## Development

> [//]: # (TODO: Pointers to where to update/modify code)

Author: Do we want to invest time now doing this? Basically we should give pointers to the various packages (for example, the frontend code is in packages/hash/frontend, and it _should_ have its own README with the relevant info so we stop duplicating it everywhere).

My guess is we want to wait for more of the repo restructuring work and @kachkaev and help with making this consistent.

Reviewer: Agreed. Let's please capture this as an internal ticket and wait for the monorepo restructure work, as you suggest.

Reviewer 3: I agree. We can add pointers once repo restructuring is done.

Author: I shall leave the TODO in.

### The Graph Query Layer
HASH's primary datastore is an entity graph. The service that provides this is located within the [/packages/graph](/packages/graph) folder. The README contains more information for development.

> > **CAUTION:** At the moment, the graph starts the services it depends on differently to the rest of the codebase. The README describes a way to start the required docker containers for development _of the graph_. 

Author: @CiaranMn is this disclaimer clear / visible enough do you think?

Author: This has been addressed

> > **CAUTION:** At the moment, the graph starts the services it depends on differently to the rest of the codebase. The README describes a way to start the required docker containers for development _of the graph_. 

Author: Can we add this addition on top of the existing caution. We're trying to emphasise that the services started by following the graph README are not compatible with `external-services`

> > **CAUTION:** At the moment, the graph starts the services it depends on differently to the rest of the codebase. The README describes a way to start the required docker containers for development _of the graph_. 

Author: Changed according to prior suggestion

> 

> > **Before running HASH, it's required to take down the other docker compose, and to follow the instructions on how to run `external-services` as outlined in the [Getting Started](#getting-started) section.** 

Author: It is not. 

If you run `cargo make deployment-up` as per the graph README, you will have a collection of docker services called "Deployment" (or something similar).

If you run `yarn external-services up` you will have a collection of docker services called "external-services" (or something similar).

These two conflict with one another, as they both try and set up Postgres, Kratos, etc.

_The reason_ we have 2, is that `external-services` dockerises and starts the graph query layer, and you don't want that when you're developing the graph query layer.

This is what's alluded to with the "this is going to be improved soon while allowing non-container-based development" thing.

> > **Before running HASH, it's required to take down the other docker compose, and to follow the instructions on how to run `external-services` as outlined in the [Getting Started](#getting-started) section.** 

Author: I wanted to avoid explicitly saying how to take it down here because us duplicating such instructions leads to fragmentation, as they are inevitably missed (see a large portion of this README for an example).

We really want to restructure all of these (post repo restructure) to have clearly labelled and encapsulated sections that can be referred to within one another. As an example, we should define the `external-services` commands once, and refer to that everywhere we say "this requires them to be up" or "you want to take them down"

> > **Before running HASH, it's required to take down the other docker compose, and to follow the instructions on how to run `external-services` as outlined in the [Getting Started](#getting-started) section.** 

Reviewer 4: If I read this and I don't know how to take them down, I'm going to ask someone or spend time googling it. That's wasted time, for the sake of not just sticking in 

> it's required to take down the other docker compose (`yarn external-services down`)

that seems worse than omitting the instruction because ideally we'd arrange the README somewhere else. let's just get the info in that people need in whatever scrappy format and clean it up later

> > **Before running HASH, it's required to take down the other docker compose, and to follow the instructions on how to run `external-services` as outlined in the [Getting Started](#getting-started) section.** 

Author: Well it's not that command... it's `cargo-make deployment-down` :(

I agree this is confusing, but this is mostly because of the current hodgepodge of READMEs all crammed into one. We don't have a clear separation of concerns.

I will point out that this is a disclaimer specifically targeting the graph development 
<img width="1035" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25749103/194571192-1384794d-67bc-4100-8c7d-55dec03da169.png">

I think the only people who will read this, and/or need to use it, are people who have already read the Graph README, and would check there. (Where there is another callout to this)

> > **Before running HASH, it's required to take down the other docker compose, and to follow the instructions on how to run `external-services` as outlined in the [Getting Started](#getting-started) section.** 

Author: How about
```suggestion
> **CAUTION:** At the moment, the graph starts the services it depends on differently to the rest of the codebase. The README describes a way to start the required docker containers for development _of the graph_. 
> 
> **These containers conflict with those started by `external-services`. Before running HASH, it's required to tear down the ones started for the graph by following the instructions in the respective README.* 
```

> > **Before running HASH, it's required to take down the other docker compose, and to follow the instructions on how to run `external-services` as outlined in the [Getting Started](#getting-started) section.** 

Reviewer 4: Then let's just delete this entire quote and just say 

> HASH's primary datastore is an entity graph. The service that provides this is located within the [/packages/graph](/packages/graph) folder. The README contains more information for development. You do not need to visit that README or folder unless you want to amend the graph service.

and leave the rest in the graph README.

> > **Before running HASH, it's required to take down the other docker compose, and to follow the instructions on how to run `external-services` as outlined in the [Getting Started](#getting-started) section.** 

Author: I have done so, while adding a small bit to the Graph README saying you must teardown the graph services when running `external-services`

In order to work w/ multiple packages in a single repository, they must adhere to some conventions.
The below `package.json` file outlines the minimum requirements a package has to fulfill:

```json5
{
  name: "@hashintel/hash-<name>",
  version: "major.minor.patch",
  description: "lorem ipsum",
  author: "<package-author>",
  license: "<package-licence>",
  scripts: {
    // omit type-checking if not applicable
    "fix:eslint": "eslint --ext .ts,.tsx --fix ./src/",
    "lint:eslint": "eslint --ext .ts,.tsx ./src/",
    "lint:tsc": "tsc --noEmit",
    build: "echo produce artifacts",
    clean: "echo remove artifacts",
    // required only if this is a shared package
    postinstall: "yarn build",
  },
  devDependencies: {
    "@typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin": "5.30.7",
    "@typescript-eslint/parser": "5.30.7",
    eslint: "8.20.0",
    "eslint-config-airbnb": "19.0.4",
    "eslint-config-prettier": "8.5.0",
    "eslint-plugin-import": "2.26.0",
    "eslint-plugin-jest": "26.6.0",
    "eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y": "6.6.1",
    "eslint-plugin-react": "7.30.1",
    "eslint-plugin-react-hooks": "4.6.0",
    rimraf: "3.2.0",
    typescript: "4.7.4",
  },
}
```

> [//]: # "TODO: this path doesn't exist, repo root?"

Reviewer 2: Maybe @kachkaev knows where we should refer to here?

}
```

> [//]: # (TODO: this path doesn't exist, repo root?)

Author: @kachkaev

Reviewer: We should quick-fix this now to be correct, although experiments over in the BP repo (https://github.com/blockprotocol/blockprotocol/pull/551) may result in further changes, requiring this to be updated again soon.

Reviewer 3: I don't get the meaning of these lines, let's delete them (269-272) 😅
Our setup will be somewhat like https://github.com/blockprotocol/blockprotocol/pull/551 in the end, as David has mentioned.

Reviewer 3: IMHO we don't have to be too explicit about linters in the docs. Nobody would read this stuff anyway. Potential contributors know how to create a PR, which will be followed by CI checks. When linting fails, a contributor needs to know what to do, e.g.

https://github.com/hashintel/hash/blob/e26e373754e76b95b3598b50fd3b9efb9cce422e/.github/workflows/ci.yml#L17-L22

All other info is irrelevant.

Author: I have removed 269-272. Unsure if there were more changes being suggested in this thread

HASH's development is being led by various employees of _[HASH](https://hash.dev/)_ (the company). The current core team includes:

[//]: # (TODO: Add Tim and Yusuf?)

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Author: Already done
